# Patch 0.6.17

## Message Indexing & Attachment Storage Overhaul

This update completely overhauls the message indexing system used for enhanced server logs and server stats,
paving the way for future expansion with a new web dashboard, viewing your logs online, and an expanded
storage system for message attachments.

Deploy date: 4/18/25

## New Functionality

- Added a new server setting: "log message events for messages authored by bots." This solves an issue where the existing setting, "log message events for actions performed by bots," would apply to both cases. This allows servers to log events if a bot deletes someone else's message, but ignore events where a bot's message is edited, for example. Existing log functionality has been updated to reflect this change, and this new setting defaults to "off." This setting can be found on your server dashboard > logging > message tab.
- Added a new server setting to attach the log index file to message delete logs. This can also be found on the dashboard > logging > message
- Add a new server setting: "index messages." Enabling this setting enables message indexing, allowing Disguard to send message event logs even for older messages not in the bot cache. This was previously enabled by default, and it's just now tied to this setting.
- Message indexes now store significantly more data, supporting potential future expansion with stats, storing more types of events, and online storage access. For now, it doesn't do much, but you can enable the new "attach log index" to get a dump of all of this data

## Behavioral Changes

- Message pin/unpin logging is now tied to the opt-in "Log attachments" setting on the web dashboard. This is due to improve performance with Discord's inefficient way of serializing message pins, since gathering pins takes a whole 5 seconds per channel. Disguard needs to gather and cache every channel's pins for this feature to work since Discord doesn't provide these event listeners natively.
- Remove "React ℹ️ for info viewer" from the logs that still have it. This feature will come back when the logging module gets improved and overhauled.
- All servers now have a storage cap for message attachments and other data that lives on disk. Right now, it is 20GB, but that number might change in the future. Disguard will gain subscription tiers down the line that raise storage limits to support the cost of storing larger amounts of attachments on the server.

## Bug Fixes

- Fixed an issue within the per message function in the birthdays module that confirms a user was talking about setting their age in a message, if this feature is enabled. There was a data mismatch, preventing the function from working.
- Fixed an issue preventing the clock emoji from displaying the correct time emoji in logs. The wrong value was being passed to the offset timestamp used to determine the time emoji. This now properly reflects each server's offset from UTC configured on the web dashboard.
- Fixed issues where most servers weren't having their messages indexed or attachments saved, causing some functionality to not work
- Fixed an issue where a false return flag was preventing message edit logs from working
- Fix "unknown channel type" from occuring with channel update logs by adding a fallback and adding "Forum" and "Media" channel keys
- Fix an issue with
- Fix an issue when a new server tries to load the dashboard by adding default values for a couple instances
- Fix an issue where the "store attachments" database setting was not pulling the correct data on updates, and was reading from the "logging enabled?" value rather than the "store attachments" value
- Fix the purge command not working due to using the previously outdated message indexing code
- Fix an issue where some dashboard values (individual modules being enabled or not) were not properly being converted to boolean

## Dev Notes

- Changed the hiearchy of local storage, including temp files, server Log Archives, and message attachments. Removed old references to the old manner of storing indexes.
- Updated the delete_message_attachments daily loop to account for the new attachments/tempfiles structure, and to remove references to outdated code. Also made the IO async in this function.
- Message indexing code has been unified and moved to the new Indexing.py. Other files that index messages now refer to this file.
- Add logging printouts to Cyberlog, Dev, and Reddit cogs
- Add and improve dev commands for indexing servers/channels, deleting indexes, and deleting attachments
- The retrieve_attachments dev command is significantly outdated, needs to be redone
- Message delete logs now use the local upload for attachments/images, and use async IO
- Bot debug output is now 8mb files (up to 15 files) rather than 64mb files. It'll actually fit into discord messages too.
- get_messages_by_timestamp in lightningdb is outdated
- bump dependencies: aiofiles, asyncpraw, motor, pymongo. Consolidate dependencies.
